So next,
we're going to discuss how we can have fault‑tolerant SageMaker endpoints.
And to understand this, let's look at an example.
So let's assume that we have our client application
that we've discussed previously.
Now it's going to need to access a SageMaker endpoint to perform inference.
Now in this case,
this endpoint has been configured within a
customer‑managed virtual private cloud, or VPC.
Now we know that an endpoint works with a load balancer and that the load
balancer itself can communicate with multiple instances.
Now let's say that this has been configured within
this VPC to support one subnet,
and that subnet exists within availability zone because subnets
are limited to a single availability zone.
Now let's say within that availability zone,
we have multiple instances that have been configured.
And matter of fact,
let's say that we've already configured autoscaling so that we can shrink or
grow the number of instances that we have based on user demand.
And in this case,
that load balancer knows how to communicate with any of those three instances.
So right off the bat, we have fixed one major problem,
and that is that we are able to now absorb the failure of any
one instance within our availability zone.
So if we have a server that goes down, that's okay.
There's still two more that the load balancer can do communicate with,
and it can route users to a working instance. So that's great. However,
we have a problem.
And that problem is,
even though we've been able to autoscaling and we're able to
deal with the failure of a single instance,
we're not able to deal with the failure of an availability zone.
Now while this is uncommon,
we do need to build in support for multiple availability zones to make sure that
we can absorb the failure of a complete availability zone.
So in this case, if our availability zone were to go away,
if it were no longer to be functional,
our users would have no access to those instances,
and they wouldn't be able to actually leverage the endpoint for inference.
So how do we get around this?
Well, ideally, when we configure our endpoint,
we're going to give it support for multiple subnets that
exist within multiple availability zones.
And while I'm showing two here, in many cases, we actually see this pushed out
to three different availability zones. And once we do that,
we're then able to configure autoscaling to not be
limited to a single availability zone, but to support multiple.
And so now, in this example,
we have multiple availability zones with instances in each so that the
load balancer can now route users to working instances so that even if
we lost an entire availability zone, we would still be able to perform inference.
And one of the great things about the autoscaling for SageMaker
endpoints is that if it has the ability to support multiple
subnets and multiple availability zones,
it can automatically put instances in the right
availability zone so you don't end up with,
for example, 95% of your instances in a single availability zone,
which could certainly cause issues.
It will try to spread them out evenly.
So with this example in place,
let's talk about some general concepts for a fault‑tolerant endpoint.
So first, SageMaker is designed with high availability in mind.
Many aspects of the service are already highly available.
We really just need to customize how we're using it.
And as we mentioned before, for security purposes,
we want to be sure that we're launching SageMaker within a VPC that we manage.
And if we want to support the outage of an instance, here, we can utilize
multiple instances. We need to have more than one instance.
But in addition to that,
we also want to be able to support an availability zone outage.
And so to do that,
we need to be sure that we're launching our endpoints across multiple availability zones.